one of the reasons that people like me
are so excited for the new Mac Pro is
because of these PCIe expansion slots
and while I know to some of you Apple
fanboys this might seem like a new and
novel concept it's not they've been the
industry norm for many years and cards
like these can expand the capabilities
of your PC just like a shirt like this
can expand your confidence LTT store
calm the question is will these cards
which are very much the norm in the PC
industry work at all on a Mac let's find
out
first up the cheapest and simplest card
and that's this thing you see io on the
new Mac Pro is not very good there's
only four Thunderbolt three ports and
only two USB ports and I don't know
about you but I'm not pro enough to be
all Thunderbolt right now I still need a
lot of USB devices and so this card for
about $35 can add five USB 3.1 gen2 USB
type a ports to the back of your Mac Pro
so once we go ahead and get it installed
we'll see if it works the best way to
test it is to obviously insert a USB
device
Ready Set Ready Set and the keyboard
will obviously work doesn't work you see
here's the problem this card and most
USB devices require external power
unfortunately they don't use PCIe power
which is what the Mac Pro supports they
require a SATA power connector now in a
PC this wouldn't be a problem because
every power supply comes with many SATA
connectors this one does not but here is
the really frustrating thing Apple sells
a device with SATA power capabilities
that's this the promised Pegasus j2 I
really what it is is it's a metal box
that sits inside the frame of your Mac
Pro and includes an 8 terabyte hard
drive with the necessary cables to
connect it to your mother word for $400
this little cable is the one that we
need it connects to the 10 pin power
header on the motherboard and then
provides SATA power problem is that's
not really a standard connector it is a
10 pin molex connector that does exist
but you know finding the right cable for
that is not impossible I've looked
everywhere
I've asked everyone who knows things
it's a custom connector does that mean
that Apple will sell it eventually I
don't know I hope so does that mean that
the third-party market might start
making stuff for it I don't know I hope
so
but for right now this thing is kind of
just a bit of a paperweight next up
storage on our six thousand dollar Mac
Pro Apple gives us the benefit of having
a monstrously sized 200 weight 256 gig
SSD cuff on Apple even the five thousand
dollar iMac Pro which uses the same SSDs
by the way as we discovered in our
teardown should definitely check that if
you haven't seen it already comes with
one terabyte for thousand dollars less
look we can probably add our own storage
namely by way of this an nvme SSD from
Samsung this is a 970 Evo these are
relatively inexpensive this is a 500 gig
drive that we picked up for $100 there
is one downside though Apple's keen on
their SSDs is proprietary so we need to
use one of these it's a little adapter
card you can pick these up very very
cheap and all they do is convert the
nvme signal into one that can
communicate over a standard PCIe slot so
let's plug that in give it a try and see
if it works
this one worked great because it was an
unformatted Drive Mac OS prompted me to
initialize the disk which upon clicking
did nothing but if you enter Disk
Utility it shows up right here Samsung
970 Evo plus 500 gigs I can press erase
I can choose the formatting that I want
and call it internal Samsung I can give
it the formatting style that I want and
the scheme press erase and done it's
ready to use pretty sweet
fun fact it's substantially faster than
the SSD inside the computer that puny
256 gig one so if you don't have the
budget to buy an SSD directly from Apple
this is a stellar choice this probably
goes without saying but one of the other
really cool things about it is well this
I'm installing Mac OS Catalina on that
Samsung Drive and so you can use it as
your primary boot volume Mac OS lets you
choose in fact you could even remove
your original SSD from the Mac Pro and
it would still boot up fine so if you
want to you know not shell out the extra
cash on a higher-end SSD from Apple just
at the base model and put in your own
really cool a pro machine however
probably requires a pro storage solution
and as much as I love little nvme drives
they're not the most reliable things on
the planet but these are you might not
know about these you might doh
they're called UDOT 2 drives and these
are very very very common in server
applications and enterprise applications
they are extremely reliable you can run
these things for tens of thousands of
hours and write petabytes of information
back and forth without them failing and
they have very excellent heatsink
enclosures that work well inside of a
chassis case I picked this one up a one
terabyte version that did come out of a
used server but with only 800 hours of
runtime on it for just over $100 it's a
lot cheaper than my nvme Drive SSD and a
lot more reliable and just as that drive
you too can communicate this over
standard PCIe slot by using one of these
cheap passive adapters it is a PCIe x4
device so it's not going to be quite as
fast as the latest and greatest nvm you
drives but it is a heck of a lot more
reliable well assuming we can even get
it to work let's find out
okay this one has me stumped you see if
I open Disk Utility it doesn't show up
at all and so I decided to open terminal
and run a command that allows you to
list all drives even if they're not
recognized by Disk Utility disk util
list I run that nothing I get my
internal drive and the nvme Samsung
Drive we just set up and that's it but
this is where it gets really weird in
Windows the operating system with
extraordinary amounts of pop-up
bloatware in Disk Management this intel
SSD does show up which makes me think
it's a driver issue with Mac OS because
these aren't intended to be used on Macs
I don't think drivers are available but
there were some people in the hackintosh
community that said that it worked fine
once they did a firmware update so I'm
going to try that in Windows with the
intel SSD tool but isn't Windows great
intel SSD toolbox let's see if it works
out ok so it actually goes deeper it
turns out that this Intel drive was
supported in Mac OS until catallena
Apple removed the drivers because
apparently they just decided they were
no longer needed a lot of hackintosh
people got left high and dry and so on
the Mac Pro that Intel drive is going to
be an
other BQ dot two drives yeah maybe but
maybe you're better off sticking with
nvme you're already sick of our PCIe
devices really only half way through all
right fine we'll take a break and talk
about memory RAM Apple actually sells
Ram upgrades for the Mac Pro on their
website and if Apple sells them and
allows you as the user to upgrade them
it means literally a dog could upgrade
the RAM in the Mac Pro it is very very
simple
you should not however in my opinion buy
RAM from Apple a lot of people think
Apple's RAM is special or unique or
proprietary it's not it's just standard
Ram made by SK Hynix and you can find
the specification that Apple has in all
of their Mac pros very inexpensively
this 64 gig kit we purchased I bought
for $200 or something like that and
Apple charges I think nearly a thousand
for the same configuration this is ECC
memory so it is error correcting and
it's registered memory if you don't know
you can look up your configuration on
Apple comm all Mac pros that ship with
less than I think 300 gigs from the
factory come with our dim and then a
larger capacity Mac pros which are
probably not upgrading the RAM because
you've got like a terabyte already come
with lrdimms so registered memory ECC
and 29 33 megahertz now Apple ships all
of their computers with 29 33 megahertz
although the lowest end configuration
the 8 core the one that I have runs RAM
at 2666 because that's a limitation of
the CPU but they still ship higher
frequency memory probably for making it
easier for them and because nobody's
buying the 8 core but also because if
you decide to upgrade the CPU in the
future you can actually take advantage
of that higher clock speed ram so if you
plan to buy and upgrade your own you
should probably get 29 33 like I did now
installing it is actually pretty simple
in Apple's own little doors where the
memory is hidden behind give you
policemen configurations so that you can
find out where to put which dim where
the downside is is that it doesn't tell
you if you have varying capacities where
to play stuff and this becomes a problem
I bought a 64 gig kit and I'm adding it
to a 32 gig kit for a total of 96 gigs
but that also means that I have for 8
gig dims and for 16 gig dims and you do
need to put them in the correct
locations to optimize the channel
performance
luckily Apple's own website actually
provides instructions on where to place
Dan
if you have varying capacities really
cool Apple way to go good job it's
pretty easy to upgrade RAM in the Mac
Pro easy if you can read you see I got a
little confused when reading the
documentation because there section on
using mixed capacities implies that at
least the way I interpreted it that you
need to install them in the channel
order or the correct channel order but
that's not actually true you need to
match the channels but still install
them in the slots that they recommend
anyway long story short I screwed up I
put them in the wrong spots but it
worked out because when I entered Mac OS
I was notified of my memory being
misconfigured and when I opened about
this Mac it gives me a big diagram of
where the slots are in incorrect
positions and you can even print out a
PDF which is pretty funny telling you
where your current Ram Dems are and
where they should be moved for maximum
performance pretty cool I'm gonna do
that right now because I I botched it
okay Queen you're thinking memory SSDs
USB a really what is this the 80s well
true yes pa didn't exist in the 80s okay
fine let's talk about higher-end devices
starting with this a capture card from
Blackmagic Design this is a 4k capture
card that can capture data from HDMI 2.0
or higher as well as SDI
capture cards are not new to pro end
computers are not even new to pro end
max Apple actually used to build capture
cards into their own computers back in
the 90s during a period of time pretty
cool
you should check my video out on one of
these such devices if you haven't seen
it already but this capture card can be
added over PCIe to the Mac the question
is will it work and I don't know because
this isn't technically intended to be
used in a Mac because what Mac has PCIe
slots that's been made in the last 10
years so let's go to a shot see if it
works this next one I have really high
hopes for because Blackmagic and Apple
have a pretty good relationship in fact
Blackmagic makes a hardware monitoring
solution for the new protis play XDR
anyway you can download the Blackmagic
desktop video suite which allegedly
includes support for black magics
capture cards and if we open it we see
that indeed our deck link Mini is
recognized by Mac os10
you can choose between the video input
speed at SDI or HDMI we're going to
leave it at HDMI and then we're going to
open any capture suite is base
typically supported by this piece of
hardware but rather than open something
like OBS we're gonna open black magics
own media Express suite and if we push
the power button on this 2013 Mac Pro we
should I missed that sound that's a good
one
this thing is silent when it boots up we
should see momentarily there it is the
Apple logo so I can confirm that yes
this 4k capture card is fully
operational in Mac OS that's sweet
let's talk audio Apple is generally had
pretty great io built into their
machines there was a time when Apple
actually had some of the best optical
audio out on the market but that's kind
of no longer become a focus in part
because most professionals people who
are doing real work have used 2x move to
external devices many audio interfaces
and Dax interface over USB and now
Thunderbolt which is pretty cool but
there still is a market for what used to
be the old norm sound cards creative
just released the sound blaster and I'm
actually really excited to give it a
shot on the Mac because it uses a really
high quality ESS saber DAC and the price
point is actually rather compelling it
even has a built-in headphone amplifier
and a number of items which makes it
seem like a pretty compelling option to
some of the lower end Dax from companies
like [__] and Focusrite which is pretty
cool now one thing that's a little odd
about this thing is that it does have a
6 pin PCI II header on it it needs power
the PCI slot doesn't supply enough
luckily the Mac Pro supports this open
standard I'll be it a little bit
strangely with this $80.00 cable kit
from Belkin you can support and supply
power to devices that require it inside
of the motherboard and so once we get
that wired up I guess we all leave it up
to chance I really don't think this
one's gonna work but let's find out yeah
this one is uhh
I'm bummed this one's a major no-go I
thought because it was an audio device
that it might work in Mac OS but now you
open the sound panel and there is no
recognized output or input from this
specific creative sound card and if you
go to their website you can look at
their download section and they have a
bunch of downloads but it's only for
Windows they don't even have Linux
drivers that's a bit of a bummer so this
sound card is a little weird we're gonna
need this this is the sound blaster box
basically it connects to the sound card
via
mini-hdmi of all ports obviously it's
not using the same standard ajussi's is
the connector type but once you plug
that in you have your display light up
here and this gives you volume control
that also lets you select your output
via either headphones or speakers and
then you have actually the phantom power
in which is kind of cool if you want to
record with a microphone if we download
the sound blaster command software in
Windows which we've done we're booted
into Windows by a bootcamp on this Mac
Pro yeah everything shows up fine the
card shows up I can change all the
settings it works and sounds excellent
it's too bad it doesn't work in Mac OS
but I have one more idea it works at
Windows but not in Mac OS but maybe
it'll work in Windows on Mac OS and by
extent then work on Mac OS so I decided
to download parallels which allows you
to run a virtualized system and what's
cool about parallels is you can actually
boot up your bootcamp partition as a VM
inside a Mac oh that's pretty cool so
let's plug this thing in and if hmm no
lights
that's not encouraging at all let's open
the sound blaster command and ya know
says please connect a supported device
your audio device cannot be connected
yeah well it's worth a shot
okay let's talk graphics everyone knows
that the base model Mac Pro ships with a
pretty respectable graphics card the
Radeon Pro 580 X is it not good I didn't
I didn't know sorry I'm a Mac guy okay
so maybe you want to add a GPU to your
computer
everyone knows or at least most people
know that AMD cards are the preferred
norm in Mac OS sure you could buy one of
Apple's really expensive MPX cards and
they are cool and you can take advantage
of the passive design but if that's not
your jam you know spending thousands and
thousands of dollars on cards that are
moderately outdated you might want to
buy your own now you can buy cards from
AMD like the 5700 XT and the Vega 64
that work really really well but you
could also maybe try something like this
an Nvidia card a GTX 1080p I know you
might be thinking wait a minute there
are no drivers for mac OS and that's
unfortunately true hi Sierra and later
no longer support and video web drivers
I'm hoping that in the next couple
of yours this will change because that's
a really lame argument that they're in
but for now that is unfortunately the
truth but maybe we can get this card to
work in boot camp and if we can does it
screw up Mac OS let's find out oh we're
going to need power headers right no
problem because we've got that kit
already so we'll power that by the
motherboard and now we're ready to go
this is an lg Thunderbolt 4k display and
it's connected to the Mac Pro over well
obviously Thunderbolt which uses the GPU
inside the Mac Pro the 580 X that's
always going to be used in Windows and
Mac OS if you choose that io option but
if I'm booted into Windows and I use a
DisplayPort cable and plug it directly
into the NVIDIA GPU well my monitor will
switch to DisplayPort mode and check it
out I'm in Windows in boot camp
it recognizes my GT X 1080 Ti and has
the latest driver installed now the
question is what can you gain on a Mac
Pro and can you gain well on a Mac Pro
stay tuned for a video on that coming
next week so there you have it a couple
of cards work great on Mac OS and Mac
Pro but most of them don't at least not
yet
and that's something you have to keep in
mind look it has been eight years since
Apple had a Mac with PCI slots which
were accessible to the end-user
community this Mac is a Mac Pro it will
be purchased by professionals and so I
actually wouldn't be surprised if over
the next couple of months and years a
lot of the hardware on this desk that
doesn't work right now will work
eventually and that drivers will be
developed that's one of the reasons why
this machine is so cool not because it's
a really cool Mac but because it's a PC
if you enjoyed this video please give it
a like if you didn't that other button
seems to work okay to get subscribe for
more awesome tech videos like this one
we've got more Mac Pro coverage coming
but most importantly and as always stay
snazzy